Create the first pages of the tutorial (#4704)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/examples/wip/tutorial/single/index.md

---

> title: Run a single microservice locally

Author: @rcaballeromx I agree that this is an issue, and I am in favor of consistency. I am OK to use the term `service` and to change it later, if decided for the whole istio.io.

> title: Run a single microservice locally

Reviewer: @vadimeisenbergibm Definitely a conversation worth having at the TOC, IMO. @frankbu @geeknoid WDYT?

> overview: Work on a single microservice, on a local developer machine.

Author: @rcaballeromx The goal of this module is to exemplify the work of a developer of a service. The developer writes the code of the service and runs and tests it locally. So the readers should get this idea of "working with a service on a local machine", not just deploying the service on a local machine in order to run it. The goal is to develop a service, not only to run it.

weight: 10
---

> This module demonstrates work on a single microservice, `ratings`, on a local developer machine.

Author: As in https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/4704/files/81d4d2a581b62174fb7e16e42915db7131128590#r309884949, the goal is to demonstrate work on a service, not to run the service.

The microservice is written in [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and is a small web app on its own.
Being a web app, it listens to a port, expects for HTTP GET requests on the `/ratings/{productID}` path and returns
ratings of a product with `productID`.

1.  Download
    [the service's code]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/ratings/ratings.js)
    and
    [the package file]({{< github_blob >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/ratings/package.json)
    into a separate directory:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ mkdir ratings
    $ cd ratings
    $ curl -s {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/ratings/ratings.js -o ratings.js
    $ curl -s {{< github_file >}}/samples/bookinfo/src/ratings/package.json -o package.json
    {{< /text >}}

>     Skim the service's code. Note the "embedded" Web Server and the aspects related to HTTP, such as the headers, the

Author: @rcaballeromx Note that this will force users to perform copy&paste four times. These steps can be just performed by one copy&paste.

    path, the status code.

1.  Run the following command to install the service's dependencies in the directory with the service code and the
    package file:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ npm install
    npm notice created a lockfile as package-lock.json. You should commit this file.
    npm WARN ratings No description
    npm WARN ratings No repository field.
    npm WARN ratings No license field.

    added 24 packages in 2.094s
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Run the service:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ npm start 9080
    > @ start /tmp/ratings
    > node ratings.js "9080"
    Server listening on: http://0.0.0.0:9080
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Access [http://localhost:9080/ratings/7](http://localhost:9080/ratings/7) in your browser or by the `curl` command:

Author: @rcaballeromx There is an opinion that "in your browser" is more correct way https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/146359/is-it-on-the-browser-or-in-the-browser. Google search returns twice more results for "in your browser" than for "on your browser".

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl localhost:9080/ratings/7
    {"id":7,"ratings":{"Reviewer1":5,"Reviewer2":4}}
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Change ratings by using the POST method, set them to `1`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -X POST localhost:9080/ratings/7 -d '{"Reviewer1":1,"Reviewer2":1}'
    {"id":7,"ratings":{"Reviewer1":1,"Reviewer2":1}}
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Check that `curl` returns the updated ratings:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl localhost:9080/ratings/7
    {"id":7,"ratings":{"Reviewer1":1,"Reviewer2":1}}
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Stop the microservice by killing its process (`Ctrl-C` in the terminal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  To stop the service stop its process, press `Ctrl-C` while in the terminal running it.
```
